# Quality attributes

The primary quality attributes that drive Fracreg are performance, flow, and
usefulness. We are keenly aware that the users of Fracreg already have a lot
of work to do associated with any particular patient or procedure, and any extra
work (i.e. entering data into Fracreg) will be seen as a nuisance. If Fracreg is
seen as too much of a nuisance users might decide not to use it, and this would
render the registry pointless.

## Performance

We want Fracreg to be fast so that users will be able to integrate it into their
workflow with minimum disruption. So when users use Fracreg they need to be able
to enter and save data quickly; seconds matter to our users, so we want the
registry to feel as fluid and "there" as possible.

At the same time, we want users to be able to navigate through the registry
quickly. In particular, they need to be able to peruse patient history quickly
in order to understand the details of a patient's past fractures and treatments.
Providing responsive navigation has been a major driver of the design of the
registry, and it's the major reason that the registry deviates from standard MRS
design in some ways.

## Flow

As part of the effort to entice users to use Fracreg - or at least not scare
them off! - we want it to work the way they work. We've gone to some lengths to
ensure that the "flow" through the system aligns with the way the users perceive
the work they're doing. For example, we have tried to put fields in the
"correct" order on a page, and we've tried to place buttons in places where they
would be found in natural order. We've even got places where were automatically
guide the user to forms.

## Usefulness/utility

As mentioned earlier, we are sensitive to being seen as a burden to our users.
As such, we've worked to make Fracreg positively useful for the users. That is,
instead of just making Fracreg a high-performance chore (but a chore
nonetheless), we've tried to give it "carrots" that actually motivate users to
use the system. For example, Fracreg has a system by which it can calculate
ICD-10 codes based on the information entered for an injury. This can
save the user a great deal of time, and as such they'll (hopefully!) view
Fracreg interaction as a net positive rather than a chore.
